So far, we have only seen one Assertion that JUnit provides and it was "assetEquals".

JUnit actually has a collection of Assertions in the class "org.junit.jupiter.api.Assertions".

You can see all of them here - https://junit.org/junit5/docs/current/api/org.junit.jupiter.api/org/junit/jupiter/api/Assertions.html

Here are some of them - 

    assertEquals => Asserts that the values are equal
    assertNotEquals => Asserts that the values are not equal
    assertNull => Asserts that the value is null
    assertNotNull => Asserts that the value is not null
    assertArrayEquals => Asserts that two arrays are equal
    assertSame => Asserts that two objects are the same
    assertNotSame => Asserts that the two objects are not the same

So, for example, we want to write a test case that test that the addition of 2 and 4 must not be "5".

So, we will write - 

    @Test
    public void testAddNotEquals() {

        // SETUP
        DemoUtils demoUtils = new DemoUtils();

        // EXECUTE
        int actual = demoUtils.add(2,4);

        // ASSERT
        Assertions.assertNotEquals(8, actual, "2 + 4 must not be 8");
    }

# STATIC IMPORT

Static import is a shortcut for referencing the "static" methods and fields in a class.

So far, this is how we have been using the Assertions - 

    Assertions.assertNotEquals(8, actual, "2 + 4 must not be 8");

We can clean things up a bit and just use - 

    assertNotEquals(8, actual, "2 + 4 must not be 8");

But, for this, we have to use "import static" and import the required assertions like so -

    import static org.junit.jupiter.api.Assertions.assertEquals;
    import static org.junit.jupiter.api.Assertions.assertNotEquals;

We can also use "wildcard" for the static import so that all the "Assertions" are imported - 

    import static org.junit.jupiter.api.Assertions.*;

In this way, we do not have to worry about importing other assert methods as we use them in our Testing class.

# EXAMPLE

Let's try to write a test for another method in our DemoUtils class named "checkNull" which accepts an object as input and checks whether the object is null or not. If the object is not null, it will return the object. Otherwise, it returns null.

        public Object checkNull(Object obj) {
            if (obj != null) {
                return obj;
            }
            return null;
        }

So, to test this, again, we use the same three steps - 

    SETUP
    EXECUTE
    ASSERT

    @Test
    public void testCheckNull() {

        // SETUP
        DemoUtils demoUtils = new DemoUtils();

        // EXECUTE
        Object obj1 = null;
        Object obj2 = "Hello World";

        Object actual1 = demoUtils.checkNull(obj1);
        Object actual2 = demoUtils.checkNull(obj2);

        // ASSERT
        assertNull(obj1, "Object 1 must be null");
        assertNotNull(obj2, "Object 2 must not be null");
    }
